If you want to run a transformer
over the entire text of a book,
you might have around 1
million tokens to process.
And that requires paying attention,
unattended to memory management.
I'll show you what I mean.
For example, if you want to run
a transformer over this book,
you might have inputs of 1
million tokens to process.
And each of these tokens will have
an associated feature vector of some size,
for example, 512.
This means that just the input for
the model is already 2GB in size.
On a 16 gigabyte GPU, this is
one-eight of your total memory budget,
and you haven't even
touched the layers yet.
Speaking of layers,
a transformer has two types of layers,
attention layers an feedforward layers.
A model might have 12
of each type of layer.
This is the case for
example, with bed space.
The size of the inputs and outputs for
each layer will also be 2GB.
To do backpropagation through this model,
the forward path will need to store
some intermediate quantities in memory.
Suppose all you save is the activations
from the boundaries between each layer and
nothing from within
the individual layers themselves.
Already you can see an issue,
saving these activations would
use around 50 GB of memory,
which wont fit on a single device.
Keep in mind that the latest transformers
are much deeper than the 12 layer
design I'm using here.
This is the first fundamental efficiency
challenge, transformers phase.
Memory usage also grows linearly
with the number of layers, so
there's no way to scale to
the million token regime.
Fortunately, there is a solution where
you don't need to save anything for
the backward path, and
I'll show you that next.